# Recommender System (Thesis Project)

## Thesis Project
This project is part of my thesis for my degree in Systems Analysis and Development at SENAI/SC. The course is designed to provide a comprehensive education in modern technologies, database management, and systems analysis, preparing students for a professional career in the technology industry.

For more details, read the [Thesis Paper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FHnjKy-Dp6_pFPGSA3--ee2nZVL1_CkYPfF7G1twHzg/edit?usp=sharing).

## Overview
Recommender systems are prevalent in the daily lives of internet users, helping companies stay competitive by retaining users and introducing them to new products or items on their websites. Users now expect to receive suggestions for new content or products when browsing a site.

This project focuses on creating an algorithm to generate recommendations for generic datasets using natural language processing techniques. It can be classified as a content-based filtering recommender system. The method used is term frequency - inverse document frequency (TF-IDF), which involves textual analysis of document descriptions.

The algorithm was validated using the MovieLens dataset, and a system was created to allow users to evaluate the recommendations. The results showed that approximately 70% of the recommendations generated by the algorithm were considered useful by users, demonstrating satisfactory performance given the subjective nature of user opinions and the non-predictive nature of the algorithm.

## Features
- Content-Based Filtering: Utilizes TF-IDF for textual analysis and recommendation generation.
- Natural Language Processing: Processes document descriptions to generate relevant recommendations.

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/recommender-system.git
cd recommender-system/
```
2. Install the required dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage
1. Checkout `features` branch.
2. Run the recommendation algorithm:
```
python recommender.py
```

## Results
The system was tested with the MovieLens dataset. About 70% of the recommendations were found to be useful by users, indicating a satisfactory outcome.
